Data engineering--
https://courses.analyticsvidhya.com/certificates/v8manxniuk

Architecture--
what is the technology stack to be used . This is decide by sol architect.
lets say for fron t end--angular js backend mysqland mongo db db, for some 
of the scrpts forthe backend, we willuse flask framework wich uses python and git
for version control.

Now,we are using 2 diff types of dbs-- mysql and mongodb, for the transactional
data like user details,suplier details,prod  trxs and refund requests.

And for products catalog and clickstream data we will  use nosql db like mogodb.
Diff categories of products have diff features,so,doc based db would be a good choice
to use.
At this stage, the data eng would be required to define the tables and there relationship.
Also need to choose appropriate data types,keys indexing, and partitioning.
A data eng is required to  write optimized queries so that we can connect with frontend.
 now,in 2014 we got an avg of 4000-5000 custs,with an avg 100-200 trxs.
in 2016,increased to 100000 and from diff parts of  world,
Delivery inIndia is ok but outside isdelayed.
So,the solu architect came upwith idea of keeping copy of this db at some other part ofworld 
aswell.But maintenance  was still difficult.So sol architects thought of moving resources to cloud.

So,lets say in cloud they seleted aws--nowon aws they selected amazon rds,using which u can create 
mysql hosted and for replacemen of mongodb --documentdb on aws.
i.e. for trx data stored in mysql-- replacedwith amazon rds, and products catalog--mongoDB with aws documentDB.

Nowthe jobof data engin is to help in migration fromon-premise to cloud.
So data engineer makes sure all the queries are working properly.

Now,data analyst team extract data fromthese dbs every 24 hrs, and do analysis an generate reports.
The prob arise when data anlyst want to extract this data multiple times.If db goes down,it reduce the user experience.
To deal with this problem, data eng will launch feew more instances of amazonrds and documentdb.
And these will be only for data analyst and not for custms.
Sfter every few hours,new data will be extracted from etlpipeline and loaded into amazonrds.
Finally we can also connect these dbs to businessintelligent tools.So this etlpipeline is dataengs job.

At this point data engmustknow-- prog lang-- pyhton/java, db--mysql,postgresql,linux shell cmds
cloud computing--aws/azure/gcp.
He orshe should be able tobuild etlpipelin,basics ofdata warehousing and fundamentalsof bi tools.
 